we have a degree of difficulty formula
to help us understand the different
levels of the maneuvers so all the dives
have a different variation and the
number of somersaults and twist that
they have so we need this tariff to help
us understand how hard the divers so
obviously the more somersaults and twist
that you add the more difficult to dive
however you have more intricate
components that affect the degree of
difficulty like the shape in the air and
for example you have the Tuck position
which is like a ball shape that puts you
into a really small position and allows
you to spin really fast and that gives
you a lower degree of difficulty but
then for example when you have the PI
position which is more like an L shape
that means you're bigger and longer and
it's harder to spin as fast and then
that increases the degree of difficulty
picking your dies is just something that
it kind of depends on your personal
diving style and what types of maneuvers
you like to do so I'm a fan of the twist
my favorite dive is my reverse twister
and my handstand also has a lot of
twists in it so I think with a sport
that's extreme and dangerous like cliff
diving you kind of pick the ones that
you're comfortable with and the ones
that you can feel confident going into
if we start with a handstand instantly
you have a higher degree of difficulty
then if we start with Mikael's dive he
does our back arms down two and a half
somersaults with one and a half twist
that degree of difficulty adds up to
five point two then if you add another
twist to it which is what David does
let's back arm stand to enough
somersaults with three twists then his
degree of difficulty increases to 5.6
then we have this new dive that Blake or
just dip which is just insane back arm
stand two-and-a-half somersaults with
four twists and the degree of difficulty
just jumps up dramatically to 6.3
because that last twist you know it just
becomes so much more difficult when
you're going above to twist
in fact the judges are not supposed to
take DD into account their scores are
multiplied by the DD afterwards so they
just have to take every dive
individually and try and pick out the
faults you want to have the highest d
that you can but the judges are giving
you scores based only on the dive and
not degree of difficulty so you have to
make sure you do good quality dives you
want high degree of difficulty but you
want good quality dives just doing
difficult dives for low scores it's just
not going to count I don't think you can
really put a limit on the DD because if
you look back at 10 meter diving 30
years ago they wouldn't have even
imagined doing the dives that they're
doing now and it's the same for this
sport it's a relatively new sport
there's only being a few years where
people have been really pushing it and
so I think it's got a long way to go
every year I think there's just gonna be
bigger and harder dives that come out
and it's it's just really cool to see
him and it's awesome to be a part of it
to push the envelope myself it's just an
extraordinary feeling and it's nice to
know that I'm a part of that
you